Dear Editors,

We are pleased to submit our manuscript titled "Materials Learning Algorithms (MALA): Scalable Machine Learning for Electronic Structure Calculations in Large-Scale Atomistic Simulations" as an article for consideration in Computer Physics Communications within the category Computer Programs in Physics (CPiP).

The fundamental interactions of electrons and nuclei govern the properties of the matter that surrounds us. In practice, many such properties and phenomena can be accessed computationally by looking at the electronic structure, i.e., the probability distribution of electrons within materials or molecules.

Efficient ways to model the electronic structure of matter have been indispensable in enabling technological progress to tackle global challenges such as the growing demand for renewable energy sources and sustainability.

Yet, even with decades of research into the matter, electronic structure simulations at sensible accuracy are not possible beyond a few thousand atoms. This impedes progress significantly, because electronic structure calculations on large scales (i.e., beyond 100,000 atoms) are hindering progress. Here, we present a computationally efficient way of overcoming this barrier. By using spatially resolved machine-learning models, we are able to accurately predict the electronic structure of materials at scales far beyond what is possible with standard methods like density functional theory.

Our manuscript describes the MALA package which enables crossing a long-standing frontier of electronic structure simulation in terms of combining modern machine-learning algorithms with physically motivated input and output quantities.

MALA is in use at various institutions, including Sandia National Laboratories, Helmholtz-Zentrum Dresden-Rossendorf (Germany), Georgia Institute of Technology, University of North Carolina A&T, SambaNova Systems, and NVIDIA.

We therefore consider it of great interest to a broad audience across both computer and the natural sciences, and as such a fitting addition to the excellent portfolio of research articles in Computer Physics Communications.

Thank you for considering our manuscript.

Kind Regards,
Attila Cangi
